Content type templates (#4465)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: docs/templates/tutorial-template.md

---
title: Phrase starting with a verb # e.g. Get started with dynamic plugin ordering
content_type: tutorial

# Optional values. Uncomment any that apply to your document.

# alpha: true # Labels the page as alpha; adds a banner to the top of the page.
# beta: true # Labels the page as beta; adds a banner to the top of the page.
---

> Tutorials are content that is for beginners and helps them learn by doing. The goal of a tutorial is to guide the user, step-by-step through a series of tasks that help them achieve a certain goal. Keep in mind that the goal and the steps should be achievable for a beginner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tutorials are docs that help users learn by doing. The goal of a tutorial is to guide the user, step-by-step through a series of tasks that help them achieve a certain goal. Keep in mind that the goal and the steps should be achievable even for a beginner. 
```

## Prerequisites <!-- Optional -->

Tutorial topics typically don't contain any prerequisites because you should be helping the user install those things in the steps. The only prerequisites you should include are those for external tools, like jq or Docker, for example. 

In the rare circumstance that you need prerequisites, write them as a bulleted list.

* Docker installed
* jq installed

## Task section <!-- Header optional if there's only one task section in the article -->

A tutorial section title directs the user to perform an action and generally starts with a verb. For example, "Install the software" or "Configure basic settings".

Each task section should include an introduction paragraph that explains what step the user doing, a brief explanation of the feature, and why the user is completing this step.

### Instructions

Steps in each section should break down the tasks the user will complete in sequential order.

Continuing the previous example of installing software, here's an example:

1. On your computer, open Terminal.
1. Install ____ with Terminal:
    ```sh
    example code
    ```

>     Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."

Author: ```suggestion
    Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the filename."
```

1. Optional: To also install ____ to manage documents, install it using Terminal:
    ```sh
    example code
    ```

>     Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."

Author: ```suggestion
    Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the filename."
```

1. To ______, do the following:
    1. Click **Start**.
    1. Click **Stop**.
1. To ____, do one of the following:
    * If you are using Kubernetes, start the software:
        ```sh
        example code
        ```

>         Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."

Author: ```suggestion
        Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the filename."
```

    * If you are using Docker, start the software:
        ```sh
        example code
        ```

>         Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."

Author: ```suggestion
        Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the filename."
```

---
title: Start with a verb ending in -ing
content_type: tutorial

# Optional values. Uncomment any that apply to your document.

# no_version: true # Disables the version selector dropdown. Set this on pages that belong to doc sets without versions like /konnect/.
# alpha: true # Labels the page as alpha; adds a banner to the top of the page.
# beta: true # Labels the page as beta; adds a banner to the top of the page.
---

Add an introduction paragraph here. Good introductions explain who this tutorial is for and what this tutorial will help the user accomplish and learn.

> Keep the conceptual information to a minimum; the user should be learning by doing.

Reviewer 2: If we use any of the quotes from this article, we need to make sure to add proper attribution.

<!-- See https://documentation.divio.com/tutorials/ for more info about how to write a tutorial -->
<!-- See the following examples of tutorial documentation:
* https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes/
* https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/migrate-ce-to-ke/
* https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/analytics/influx-strategy/ 
-->
<!-- Remove these comments once you are done writing -->

> ## Prerequisites <!-- Optional -->

Author: @Guaris I like that idea of having prereqs installed as part of the tutorial, but I don't know if all our current tutorial docs follow that rule. I'm okay with making that the rule going forward though. Maybe something to discuss during style + standards meeting? Or do you think the fact that Divio doesn't use them is enough to say that this should be the rule?

> ## Prerequisites <!-- Optional -->

Reviewer: I think it is okay to make that a rule going forward. How-to should have the opposite ruling, and things that need to be installed should be included in prereqs and not be installed in the how-to unless they directly relate to the topic.

> ## Prerequisites <!-- Optional -->

Reviewer 2: Most of our docs don't follow the rules in all of these templates at the moment :) it's definitely a going-forward initiative. 

Agree on @Guaris 's assessment overall. I think it breaks down like this:
* how-to topic: steps are out of context, and therefore require a number of prerequisites to accomplish
* tutorial: steps are telling a story/following a workflow. if there's a prereq, it's usually "follow the previous guide in this tutorial", otherwise most of the setup happens in the tutorial itself. 
  * Exceptions: external tools needed to complete a tutorial. We're not going to teach them how to install jq, for example.

<!-- Write prerequisites as a bulleted list. Only list prerequisites if they are application level prerequisites. -->
<!-- If it isn't a "getting started" topic, we can assume our products are installed. -->
<!-- Don't prescribe Konnect or Gateway role permissions. -->

* First prerequisite

> * Second prerequisite

Reviewer 2: +1

> ## Task section <!-- Header optional if there's only one task section in the article -->

Author: @Guaris What would be in the "Explanation of instructions" section? Or do you have an example doc I could look at?

> ## Task section <!-- Header optional if there's only one task section in the article -->

Reviewer: Check out this [tutorial](https://numpy.org/numpy-tutorials/content/tutorial-ma.html#exploring-the-data). I'm thinking about it how there is an explanation that is happening after the instructions. Like a smaller inline summary of what just took place.

> ## Task section <!-- Header optional if there's only one task section in the article -->

Reviewer 2: Seconding this as well. For a tutorial, there needs to be more info than just the steps alone. Tutorials tend to explain why you're completing certain tasks, or they give more intro context, etc. They're basically trying to teach you _why_ you're doing the thing and what it'll accomplish vs simply walking you through a blind set of steps.

> <!-- Title must be tasked-based and start with a verb -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- Title must be task-based and start with a verb -->
```

---

> title: Phrase starting with a verb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Phrase starting with a verb # e.g. Get started with dynamic plugin ordering
```

content_type: tutorial

# Optional values. Uncomment any that apply to your document.

> # no_version: true # Disables the version selector dropdown. Set this on pages that belong to doc sets without versions like /konnect/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Instructions

Steps in each section should break down the tasks the user will complete in sequential order.

Continuing the previous example of installing software, here's an example:

1. On your computer, open Terminal.
1. Install ____ with Terminal:
    ```sh
    example code
    ```
    Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."
1. Optional: To also install ____ to manage documents, install it using Terminal:
    ```sh
    example code
    ```
    Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."
1. To ______, do the following:
    1. Click **Start**.
    1. Click **Stop**.
1. To ____, do one of the following:
    * If you are using Kubernetes, start the software:
        ```sh
        example code
        ```
        Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."
    * If you are using Docker, start the software:
        ```sh
        example code
        ```
        Explanation of the variables used in the sample code, like "Where `example` is the file name."

### Explanation of instructions <!-- Optional, but recommended -->

> This section should contain a brief, 2-3 sentences that summarizes what the user accomplished in these steps and what the outcome was. For example, "The software is now installed on your computer. You can't use it yet because the settings haven't been configured. In the next section, you will configure the basic settings so you can start using the software." 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section should contain a brief, 2-3 sentence paragraph that summarizes what the user accomplished in these steps and what the outcome was. For example, "The software is now installed on your computer. You can't use it yet because the settings haven't been configured. In the next section, you will configure the basic settings so you can start using the software." 
```

## Second task section <!-- Optional -->

Adding additional sections can be helpful if you have to switch from working in one product to another or if you switch from one task, like installing to configuring. 

### Instructions

1. First step.
1. Second step.

### Explanation of instructions <!-- Optional, but recommended -->

## See also <!-- Optional, but recommended -->

This section should include a list of tutorials or other pages that a user can visit to extend their learning from this tutorial.

See the following examples of tutorial documentation:

> * https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes/
> * https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/migrate-ce-to-ke/
> * https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/analytics/influx-strategy/ 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Get started with services and routes](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes/)
* [Migrate from OSS to Enterprise](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/migrate-ce-to-ke/)
* [Set up Vitals with InfluxDB](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/analytics/influx-strategy/)
```
